UNIVERSITY OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY
FACULTY OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Lesson #8:
CONTINUOUS DELIVERY &
DEPLOYMENT (CD)
THAI NGUYEN, MONTH … YEAR 2025
Lesson objectives
1Understand the CD process
Master the continuous delivery (CD pipeline) and continuous
deployment processes.
2Package applications with Docker
Know how to package applications as images with Docker.
3Apply CD with Jenkins
Combine Jenkins with Docker to build an effective CD process.
University of Information and Communication
Technology
Main content
1Continuous delivery & deployment process - CD
2Package applications with Docker
CD practice with Jenkins
University of Information and Communication
TechnologyUsing Docker with Command Line Tools & Docker Compose3
1. Continuous Delivery (CD) Process
❑Continuous Delivery Process = CI +
deploy application to deployment
environments, but deploying to the end -
user environment (Prod) is still manual.
University of Information and Communication
Technology
1. Continuous Deployment Process
Continuous Deployment = CI
+ CD, but automates
deployment to the end -user
environment (Prod).
University of Information and Communication
Technology
2. Package applications with Docker
a)Introduction
b)Register & Explore Docker Hub
c)Install Docker Desktop on Windows
d)Check installation & view Docker commands
e)Key elements of Docker
f)Main/core Docker directives
g)Create Dockerfile with basic directives
h)Building a Docker image from Dockerfile
i)Initialize a new Container of the image
j)Push the built Image to Docker Hub
k)Pull the Image from Docker Hub to run a test
University of Information and Communication
Technology
a. Docker – Introduction
❑In recent years, a particular technology has attracted attention
in the market, on social networks and at events, namely Docker.
❑Docker is an open source containerization tool from 2013,
which allows isolating applications from the server system.
▪Helps applications become mobile, can be tested on the developer's
workstation and deployed to the production environment without
worrying about runtime dependencies.
▪It is a cross -platform tool, can be installed on Windows, Linux,
macOS, ...and is available by default on some cloud providers such as
AWS, Azure, ...
University of Information and Communication
Technology
Container
A system that embeds the application with its dependencies, containing only a lightweight operating system and
the necessary elements.
Comparison with VM
Unlike virtual machines (VMs) that contain a full operating system, containers rely on the guest operating system
(the container only contains a lightweight operating system (OS) and the elements necessary for that operating
system such as system libraries, binary files and code dependencies).
Portability
Docker makes applications portable by building images that are easy to deploy across different environments
without compatibility issues.
University of Information and Communication
Technologya. Docker – Introduction
❑To operate,  Docker  needs  the following  elements :
▪Docker  Desktop  UI: manage  containers
▪Docker  client : Is a command  line tool (docker)  that you
use to give commands,  for example : docker  run, docker
build,  ...
▪Docker  daemon : Is the "engine"  of Docker,  responsible
for: Managing  containers,  images,  networks,  volumes ;
Executing  commands  from  the Docker  Client .
▪Docker  Registry : This is a public  repository  (Docker  Hub)
or a private  repository  of Docker  images  (account
registration  required)
In Docker Desktop, Docker Client and Docker Daemon are
available → run directly on Desktop (Windows /Mac/Linux).
Docker Desktop only connects to Docker Hub by default
a. Docker – Introduction
2. Package applications with Docker
a)Introduction
b)Register & Explore Docker Hub
c)Install Docker Desktop on Windows
d)Check installation & view Docker commands
e)Key elements of Docker
f)Main/core directives of Docker
g)Create Dockerfile with basic directives
h)Building a Docker image from Dockerfile
i)Initialize a new Container from the image
j)Push the built Image to Docker Hub
k)Pull the Image from Docker Hub to test run
University of Information Technology and
Communications
Docker Hub is a public space (registry) containing over 2
million public Docker images from companies,
communities, and individual users.
To register, visit https://hub.docker.com/, fill in the
information and click "Sign Up". This account allows us to
upload arbitrary images and download Docker Desktop.
After logging in, we can explore the available images in
the "Explore" section, with filters to search for official
images, from verified publishers, or certified by Docker
(Screenshot – Slide below)
University of Information Technology and
Communications
Registered with account ptthuong@ictu.edu.vnb. Register & Explore Docker Hub
b. Register & Explore Docker Hub
University of Information Technology and
Communications
b. Register & Explore Docker Hub
University of Information Technology and
Communications
b. Register & Explore Docker Hub
2. Package applications with Docker
a)Introduction
b)Register & Explore Docker Hub
c)Install Docker Desktop on Windows
d)Check installation & view Docker commands
e)Key elements of Docker
f)Main/core directives of Docker
g)Create Dockerfile with basic directives
h)Building a Docker image from Dockerfile
i)Initialize a new Container from the image
j)Push the built Image to Docker Hub
k)Pull the Image from Docker Hub to test run
University of Information Technology and
Communications
❑Docker Desktop is a cross -platform tool, free for developers and small teams.
To install on Windows, we need to ensure:
•Windows 10/11 64 -bit with at least 4GB RAM.
•Windows Subsystem for Linux 2 (WSL 2) backend or Hyper -V is enabled.
❑Installation:
(1) Download the installation file from the Docker Desktop for Windows page, then run the .EXE
file and configure the components for the WSL 2 backend. After the installation is complete; (2)
Launch Docker Desktop and log in to Docker Hub.
=> Specifically as follows:
University of Information Technology and
Communicationsc. Install Docker Desktop on Windows
c. Install Docker Desktop on Windows
(1) Download  Docker  Desktop  by
clicking  on the Docker  Desktop  for
Windows  button  on the page :
https ://docs .docker .com/desktop/wind
ows/install/
▪Screenshot :